hi this is a bit of a philosophical
follow up to my most recent video in
response to some comments I just got
from Tobias himself you do not need to
now click back to that earlier video to
understand opposed to talk about because
it's a very general theoretical and
fundamental nature the question 7 Tobias
made me once again pause to think about
the extent to which my own discussions
of politics even though they may be very
pragmatic and tone even though they may
largely revolve around personal
anecdotes my thoughts do nevertheless
have underpinnings really in greco-roman
philosophy in assumptions about what
political action is and how it works
that in modern political science come
out of the reading of Aristotle Plato
lucidity use etc and applying those
ancient Greek frameworks to the
practical reality of how you bring a
complaint to City Hall in the modern
world how you might give a deposition to
provincial Parliament's how you might
lobby your state government depending on
where you are and the different types of
risks and rewards the people expose
themselves to including financial risk
legal risk the risk of being thrown in
prison that activism and not merely
activism activism lobbying political
engagement of any kind entails so
there's a whole framework there that I'm
not mentioning and not explaining when I
record a pretty casual video that
obviously includes examples of me
socializing with people on the internet
but to me it is not just socializing
that I'm talking about I was surprised
when an initial responses to bias he
said you know fairly enough you simple
look I'm talking about having an
economic and ecological impact on the
meat industry and you're just talking
about socializing and that's very
surprising me to hear because from my
perspective I'm not just talking about
socializing in my earlier video I used
examples of people trying to organize a
small magazine or a small website or
take political action get involved
activism or start a business or
repeatedly referred to that and I refer
to the Chinese concept of guanxi and
Guan XI is important for political
organization and this kind of economic
organization getting some kind of
business rolling now it's interesting to
me that oil again partly I have to pause
and reflect these things seem obvious to
me because of my background in political
philosophy and indeed in practical real
world politics I do know what it's like
to give a deposition at City Hall and
the type of organization that surrounds
that I have the deep assumption here
that a prerequisite for effective
political action is having a group of
close-knit individuals you can say
friends in my earlier video i just use
words like friendship you know of adults
after they finish high school trying to
make friends trying to find common
ground with other people that they can
work with but again it was not just
socialization was document i was talking
about getting work done and that
capacity to form a unit of people who
can work together i think is critically
important whether you call that guan xi
and chinese or whether you appeal to a
ancient greek nomenclature okay at this
moment i'm going to go off on a tangent
that you're going to see soon is not
really a tangent at all i received an
email a couple of weeks ago from a guy
who was offering to publish on paper one
of my old essays that has floated around
the internet for years i wrote an essay
on the philosophy or thur Schopenhauer
when I was still an undergraduate
student and it's actually been read and
referred to a quite a number of people
I've gotten fan mail from it and I've
seen it referred to in some odd context
the internet that showed that some
number of people cared about and
responded to that video so this guy
wrote to me asking if he could publish
this on paper in some kind of small
magazine he had so naturally the first
step for me was to google him the glows
publication look into it and in my reply
I said to him you know because I was
looking at his publication obviously he
managed to get together a group of maybe
five friends and to start publishing you
know on obscure magazine uh not a
magazine that's going to change the
world perhaps but he had that guanxi he
had that level of organization to put
together a publication that's a very
humble form of self-expression whether
it's artistic expression political
expression or whether you think of that
magazine as a business almost nobody
these days is trying to make money
through publications but getting a group
of people together and cooperate
together can trust each other who trust
each other enough to devote financial
resources as well as time and effort to
making a magazine that's a very basic
unit of organization anyway I actually
said response to this guy which is which
is really true I said look you know I'm
at a university every day of the week if
I had found just two or three other
people two or three other intellectuals
hard-working intellectuals who I can
cooperate with I would have started a
small magazine of this same kind within
the last year shall we say um but I
haven't at the University I go to you
although I socialize a lot with the
professors frankly in many ways I am
alone I'm on the internet talking to
this camera I'm communicating with few
hundred people in these videos but do I
know five people who could cooperate
with me just to produce a small magazine
no I don't do I know five people who I
could cooperate with closely enough to
register a legal charity in Canada now
registering a charity doing the
paperwork to have a charity can be the
beginning of many things it can be the
beginning of publications it can be the
beginning of political activism again at
city hall at the provincial level at the
federal level you name it but having
five people who can sign legal documents
jointly
who trust each other enough to put money
into a bank account together whose trust
each other enough that they're going to
expose themselves to the risk ultimately
of going to prison because all political
action involves legal risk believe me
lobbying the government in a communist
dictatorship like Laos or China or even
Hong Kong now I mean you know you want
to get involved in political activism in
Hong Kong you need to really trust the
people who are signing documents with
you who are making public political
statements with you but any form of
collaboration again even if you're
artistic collaboration but collaboration
for publications public engagement with
issues ecological advocacy vegan
advocacy this does have to start with
what I would just normally call
friendship I really think the Chinese
concept of guanxi is so useful because
it provides us with a concept that we
don't have in English guanxi and Chinese
maybe this person is not your friend but
you can work with them you can trust
them there's some exchange of
responsibilities involved maybe you can
delegate a responsibility to them and
they can delegate a responsibility you
there may be exchange of gifts involved
in establishing that type of practical
trust and cooperation and so on there
are even more pretentious ideas that
come out of Latin and Greek that I'm not
going to use this video and I don't use
my day-to-day life and any rate this
discussion I've just had with Tobias
maybe highlights a generational
difference a difference between myself
someone whose values are perhaps 2,000
years at a date and people who because
of the internet conceptualize political
action and engagement as being something
that isolated individuals do I'm sorry
to say in the real world political
action is precisely something that
isolated individuals don't they don't do
I'm having the confidence to go to City
Hall and give a deposition normally does
require that you have two or three
people minimum cooperating on a project
and those people may only have some
things
come with you and not others you may
have a group of two or three people who
all really care about saving the whales
saving the Dolphins saving a particular
Harbor saving trying to get the city to
change the time the ferry departs oh it
can be a very practical issue could be a
very lofty issue it could be something
like veganism that in some ways is a
practice we can undertake ourselves and
our own kitchens and our own diets but
it may be something like wanting to
scrutinize the use of vivisection on a
university that then involves very
complex legal jurisdiction engagement
with any issue of these kinds I mean if
you just want to put together the money
to organize a conference an academic
conference to organize a publication
let's say an academic publication those
things can really have a very long
shadow they can have a big impact on the
world but it's going to start with maybe
five friends who again trust each other
enough to put the money together to
devote the time and effort and energy to
making something happen and thus yeah
there's a very strange asymmetry between
what I felt I was saying in that video i
posted just yesterday and what tobias
thinks he's looking at because he thinks
i'm just talking about socializing and
know what I'm talking about friendship
when I'm talking about social networking
if you like I'm talking about the
necessary first step towards political
action of any kind and yes in your
business life in your economic life I
think it really is the necessary first
step towards some almost anything that's
really worth doing beyond just walking
around with your hat in your hand in
your resume trying to let someone else
be your boss and someone else determine
your financial future if you wanted to
open a vegan bakery I think you need to
start with at least a group of five
friends and those five friends might
ultimately have to sign together to try
to get a loan from a bank
so on and so forth